Bitcoin Core App Case Study (#1084)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app.md

   width = 600
   height = 282
   layout = "shadow"
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/v-0-5-2.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/v-0-5-2@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Screenshot of the 2011 rewrite"
   caption = "Version 0.5.2 from 2011."
   width = 600
   height = 368
   layout = "shadow"
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/v-26.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/v-26@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Screenshot of the 2023 version of the software"
   caption = "Version 26 from 2023."
   width = 600
   height = 384
   layout = "shadow"
%}

</div>

The Bitcoin Core project plays an essential role in the ecosystem. It not only serves as the reference implementation of the Bitcoin protocol, but it is also the only implementation on the node side. The software includes node and wallet features and is broadly used by miners, businesses and enthusiasts, as well as a more casual audience.

## Goals

There are four main goals of this project:

- Empower people to run a node easily on a mobile device.

> - Expand wallet features wallet with the latest best practices and developments.

Author: ```suggestion
- Expand wallet features with the latest best practices and developments.
```

- Provide more useful tools for experts and developers.
- Build a solid design foundation and public blueprint.

### Nodes on mobile devices

<div class="center">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/node-on-device.jpg"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/node-on-device@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "Android smartphone running the software, showing the block clock"
   layout = "float-right-desktop"
   width = 400
   height = 416
%}

> A major goal is to make running a node easier and more rewarding, since that is an essential function in the bitcoin network. Running a node means actively helping to verify consensus rules, for example that coins are not spent which do not exist. Node runners also get to personally manage, verify and broadcast transactions, which is a great privacy benefit.

Author: ```suggestion
A major goal is to make running a node easier and more rewarding, since that is an essential function in the bitcoin network. Running a node means actively helping to verify consensus rules, for example coins are not spent which do not exist. Node runners also get to personally manage, verify and broadcast transactions, which is a great privacy benefit.
```

</div>

> Since the current application only works on desktop operating systems, what better way to enable more users to run a node than expanding support for mobile devices. Initial development focuses on Android, of which there are an estimated 3.5 billion users worldwide.

Author: ```suggestion
Since the current application only works on desktop operating systems, it is more accessible and enables more users to run a node than expanding support for mobile devices. Initial development focuses on Android, of which there are an estimated 3.5 billion users worldwide.
```

Reviewer: New sentence does not make sense.

### A solid design foundation

Contributing as a designer to Bitcoin Core is currently not a simple task. While there is much documentation of the codebase and application, there is none for the design itself. Since transparency and building in public is central to this project, [a dedicated site](https://bitcoincore.app) has been built. It has two purposes:

- To create an environment that is welcoming to both newcomers and old-timers, so they can contribute more easily.
- To create a public blueprint, which makes it easier to understand and discuss changes before they are implemented, and thereby simplifying the implementation itself.

{% include picture.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/layout-rules.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/case-studies/bitcoin-core-app/layout-rules@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Screen with lines and measurements overlaid that describe the layout logic"
   width = 800
   height = 420
%}

> And if this new application will be around for years, and possibly decades, we want to ensure it starts with as strong of a foundation as possible.

Author: ```suggestion
And if this new application will be around for years, and possibly decades, we want to ensure it starts off with the strongest foundation possible.
```

   layout = "float-right-desktop"
   width = 400
   height = 394
%}

Bitcoin is meant to stand the test of time. If we design and build this application well, it can do so as well. There are still open questions around whether this new codebase will replace the old QT code in the primary bitcoin repository or be standalone. This affects code reviews, build systems, release cycles and more.

Once a first “official” version is ready to go live, we need to ensure users can smoothly migrate, and then learn and iterate from feedback. And release cycles will also change the dynamics of the project slightly.

</div>

This project has already come a long way from the initial conversations several years ago. We’re excited to do our share as designers in helping to get a rock-solid, trustworthy, useful, and intuitive application in bitcoiners hands.
If you’d like to contribute, review the design documentation and stop by the [#bitcoin-core-app channel](https://discord.gg/MQzeVTWgaX) in the Bitcoin Design Discord.

---

Next, view the [resources]({{ '/guide/resources' | relative_url }}) that can help you build better bitcoin products.

{% include next-previous.html

>    previousUrl = "/guide/case-studies/payjoin/"

Author: ```suggestion
   previousUrl = "/guide/case-studies/walletscrutiny/"
```

>    previousName = "Payjoin"

Author: ```suggestion
   previousName = "WalletScrutiny"
```
